Thank you very much for this opportunity...


I have completed my evaluation of your manuscript. The reviewer recommends reconsideration of your manuscript following revision and modification.

I invite you to resubmit your manuscript after addressing the comments below. Please resubmit your revised manuscript by Sep 01, 2022.  Most of the concerns are expositional in nature. Since the JIMF audience is not necessarily familiar with input-output analyses and the derivation of these types of indices, it is critical that the  layout be as clear as possible.

When revising your manuscript, please consider all issues mentioned in the reviewer's comments carefully: please outline every change made in response to their comments and provide suitable rebuttals for any comments not addressed. Please note that your revised submission may need to be re-reviewed.    

To submit your revised manuscript, please log in as an author at https://eur03.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.editorialmanager.com%2Fjimf%2F&amp;data=05%7C01%7Cguillaume.daudin%40dauphine.psl.eu%7C5967814d507f45ffdbfa08da5d5a8179%7C81e7c4de26c94531b076b70e2d75966e%7C0%7C0%7C637924940547935926%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&amp;sdata=M1MaAWsyc9oJ4aBlsANSJstad0yJWevp71EyRt2Q6Ww%3D&amp;reserved=0, and navigate to the "Submissions Needing Revision" folder under the Author Main Menu.    

Journal of International Money and Finance values your contribution and I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.￼  

Kind regards,   

Menzie Chinn  

Editor  

Journal of International Money and Finance  

Editor and Reviewer comments:    

NE PAS OUBLIER DE FAIRE ANSWERS TO REFEREE
Dossier

Reviewer #1: This paper uses an accounting approach to estimate the elasticity of the household consumption expenditure (HCE) deflator to the exchange rate.  After estimating these elasticities for many countries, it explores their heterogeneity across countries and over time. The authors find that countries the consume a larger share of imported goods and services experience higher elasticities. Countries vary in the determinants of the HCE deflator elasticity (e.g. consumption of domestic vs. imported good; sector composition). Changes in the use of imported inputs have affected the value of these elasticities over time. Finally, the authors show that the estimated elasticities are well predicted by the share of imported consumption good in GDP and the share of imported inputs in GDP.


*	The paper is difficult to read. Part of it is the organisation of the information and another part of it is the exposition.  I understand input-output linkages well and still had to think hard about all the relationships discussed in section 2, and various parts of the paper (I'll be specific in my comments below).

Thank you for your comment. 
We have strived to simplify the exposition of the information and to better organize the paper. 
For instance, we moved some parts of Section 2 to the appendix. 
To simplify the main text and make it easier to read, we have redrafted some parts of the paper and put some technical explanations in footnotes. 

*	The analysis makes assumptions on the degree of the exchange rate pass-through (ERPT) and currency pricing. These assumptions imply estimated elasticities are an upper bound.  It would be great if the authors could incorporate a discussion of the consequences of this for their findings.  While I do agree the assumptions bias estimates elasticities upwards, I am not sure the cross-country heterogeneity is correctly identified. If one looks at Figure 1, Taiwan has a greater elasticity than Canada but that might not be the case if the bias from the assumptions on Taiwan's calculations is worse than that on Canada's.  This point is particularly important given that cross-country heterogeneity is explored in section 3.1. and 3.2.

Thank you for this comment. We incorporated a discussion of the consequences of our simplifying assumptions in the introduction. 
In particular, we stress that: 
"we suppose that all pricing occur using the currency of the producing country. The invoicing decision is an active channel through which producers adjust their prices in relation to their own market power and to local competitive pressures. Prices fixed in the local currency are sticky in the currency of the destination market and irresponsive to changes in the bilateral exchange rate between the local currency and the currency of the producer. By contrast, prices fixed in the producer's or dominant currency have a higher ERPT. Contrary to our hypothesis, a large body of empirical literature suggests that the vast majority of trade is invoiced in a small number of ‘dominant currencies’, with the U.S. dollar playing a major role. The ‘dominant currency paradigm’ (\cite{Gopinath2020}) implies that for non-U.S. countries, the ERPT into import prices (in home currency) should be high and driven by the U.S. dollar exchange rate as opposed to the bilateral exchange rate, whereas for the U.S. the pass-through into import prices should be low. \cite{Gopinath2010} also show that there is a large difference in the ERPT of the average good priced in dollars (25\%) versus non-dollars (95\%).
Hence, using alternative pricing assumptions would entail lower estimates of the elasticity of consumer prices to the exchange rate."

Regarding the cross-country heterogeneity, we underline in the introduction that "the upward bias stemming from our simplifying assumptions is unlikely to be constant. The magnitude of the bias likely depends on the size of the economy. In particular, it is likely that in large and attractive markets, competitive pressures may push producers to adopt local currency pricing strategies, where exporting firms adapt their mark-ups depending on the destination market to offset exchange rate movements. Hence, we would expect the upward bias in our estimated elasticities to be more pronounced for the largest and most attractive markets represented in our sample." 

We also added a discussion of these caveats in section 3, as suggested, when we discuss the cross-country heterogeneity.
The end of Section 3.1 now reads as follows: 
"An important caveat is that our computations rely on several simplifying assumptions which biais our estimates upward. 
First, we assume that exchange rate fluctuations completely pass-through to import prices. 
However, a large body of literature suggests that the pass-through is incomplete, even in the long run, as a result of slow nominal price adjustments or the pricing-to-market behaviour of firms. \footnote{For example, the pass-through depends on the intensity
of competition in domestic markets: while an exchange rate appreciation lowers the price of imported inputs, a firm with limited competitive pressure may avail of greater profit margins rather than reduce prices in an effort to maintain its market share.} 
Hence, pricing-to-market strategies of exporters aiming to defend their market shares would imply a lower exchange rate pass-through.
In addition, we work under the producer pricing assumption. 
However, in large and attractive markets, competitive pressures may push producers to adopt local currency pricing strategies,
where exporting firms adapt their mark-ups depending on the destination market to offset exchange rate movements. 
Under the local currency pricing paradigm, prices are thus sticky in the currency of the destination market. 
Hence, using alternative pricing assumptions would entail lower estimates of the HCE deflator elasticity.
The magnitude of the upward biais stemming from our simplifying assumptions is unlikely to be constant in our sample given the cross-country heterogeneity.
In particular, it is likely that in large and attractive markets, competitive pressures may push producers to adopt local currency pricing strategies, where exporting firms adapt their mark-ups depending on the destination market to offset exchange rate movements. 
Hence, we would expect the upward bias in our estimated elasticities to be more pronounced for the largest and most attractive markets represented in our sample."

*	The language in the introduction is not always clear. For example: "we assume that the impact of the exchange rate fluctuation is proportional across sector". At page 1 I was not sure to what the proportionality referred, only in section 2.3 I understood that it referred to the use of inputs whose price is affected. 

For the sake of clarity, we removed the discussion on the proportionality assumption from the introduction. 
The implications of this assumption are discussed more precisely in the data section (now Section 1).

I also found confusing the discussion of channels iii) and iv) at page 2. Most readers are unfamiliar with input-output structures and have not thought of all the ways in which shocks propagate from one country to another through input-output linkages.

We simplified the discussion on channels iii) and iv) and redrafted the introduction as follows:
"We look into the determinants of the HCE deflator elasticity and the role of global value chains in the transmission of an exchange rate appreciation. 
We identify the main channels through which the exchange rate impacts the HCE deflator when production processes are global.
We find that the main transmission channels are:
i) the prices of imported ﬁnal goods sold directly to domestic consumers and
ii) the prices of imported inputs entering domestic production. 
These two channels explain three-quarters of the transmission of an exchange rate appreciation to domestic prices.
By contrast, other channels reflecting the impact of global value chains (such as the price of exported inputs feeding through imported foreign production) play a more limited role, with marked cross-countries heterogeneity.
Hence, only one-fourth of the elasticity of the HCE deflator to the exchange rate is attributable to participation in global value chains."

Similarly, we simplified the discussion on these four channels in Section 4. 

*	In the introduction, main findings are discussed only for the third and fourth exercise in the paper but not for the first two 

As suggested, we redrafted the introduction in order to discuss the main findings of all the exercises performed in the paper. 
To do so, we added a short summary of the section which focuses on the impact of an appreciation of the US dollar:

"We analyse the impact on the domestic economy of variations in the currency of their trading partners. 
We show that countries are affected in proportion to their trading links with the country whose currency appreciates. 
For example, we estimate the impact of an appreciation of the US dollar." 

We also better emphasize our contribution to the literature when we refer to the extrapolations performed with up-to-date trade and GDP statistics: 

"We show that a precise assessment of the HCE deflator elasticity to the exchange rate can be estimated for recent years without resorting to WIOTs. 
The construction of World Input- Output tables is data-demanding and WIOTs are typically released with a lag of several years.
As a result, WIOTs are not available for the most recent years. For instance, the latest WIOD
dataset dates back to 2014. Although the MRIO dataset covers most recent years, it suffers from data quality issues in 2018. 
To address the data gap in WIOTs, we extrapolate the HCE deflator elasticity from 2015 onwards using up-to-date GDP statistics and trade data on consumption
and intermediates. 
We obtain a reliable estimate of the HCE deflator elasticity up to to 2019.
While most of the existing literature focuses on average elasticities, computed over a period covering several years, extrapolations allow us to analyse how elasticities change in a more up-to-date way, from one year to another."  

We also stress the fact that we used several datasets for the sake of robustness. 
To the best of our knowledge, such a comprehensive robustness test is seldom performed in the existing literature: 
"Last but not least, we use several WIOTs databases for the sake of robustness (i.e. WIOD, two distinct releases
of the OECD TiVA database and the MRIO database), which is seldom the case in the existing literature. 
Results from different WIOTs converge."


*	The motivation and contribution of the paper to the literature should be included in the introduction.  

We try to better motivate our paper by adding the following sentences at the beginning of the introduction:

"Over the past two decades, the rise of global value chains has led to a greater use of input-output tables to study international linkages. 
In this paper, we analyse which countries are most vulnerable to cost-push inflation using world input-output tables. 
We also document the heterogeneous reactions of consumer prices to exchange rate variations across countries, reflecting differences in foreign product content of consumption and intermediate products. 
Understanding the influence of exchange rate on inflation is indeed critically important for measuring the extent of expenditure switching that follows exchange rate variations, which, in turn, has an impact on real activity.
To shed light on these mechanisms, we study the elasticity of the household consumption expenditure (HCE hereafter) deflator to the exchange rate."

Section 1 could be thus incorporated in the introduction.

*	I would consider dropping section 1, but including a deeper and more concise discussion of the related literature. This paper relates to the ERPT literature but also to the large macro-trade literature that sheds light on the transmission of shocks across countries through input-output linkages. The contribution of the paper to each of these strands should be clearly discussed.


We shortened Section 1 and incorporated it in the introduction while better explaining our contributions.

*	Section 2 should be re-organised. The focus of the section should be on the derivation of the HCE deflator elasticity. The data could be discussed in a separate section.

As suggested, we have re-organised Section 2. 
We now discuss the data sources and compare the different databases in a separate section (Section 1). 
As a result, Section 2 only focuses on the derivation of the HCE deflator elasticity.

*	I am unsure of the purpose of section 2.1.   I am guessing the authors wanted to show that the effect of a change in production costs is different from that due to a change in the exchange rate. But isn't that shown in Online Appendix D?

Thank you for this comment. This section was meant initially as an introduction to the rest of the analysis, but we agree it was redundant. We have moved it to Online Appendix. 

*	The analysis in section 4.3 is poorly explained. Are all countries included when equation (17) is estimated? What are the estimated coefficients? Why is the estimated specification that in equation (17)? What happens if the time-varying variables are replaced by time fixed-effects?

We have changed that section. We now explain why we do not use the time-fixed effects. We give and comment the regression results of equation 17 (now equation 16) and explain why we are more interested in the goodness-of-fit than the coefficient value and significance per se). 
We give the number of countries and years over which the equation is estimated. We hope to have thus clarified the discussion and answered your concerns.

**Vérifier les numéros de sections dans l’appendice !**

*	For the exercise in 4.3 to be helpful, it would be good if the authors could validate their estimated elasticities. Is there any other study that for a subset of the sampled countries has obtained relatively precise estimated HCE deflator elasticities?  In the abstract, the authors mention their elasticity estimates are in line with the literature- so that should be feasible. 

A lot of the correlations highlighted in the paper feel mechanical.

To take into account your comment, we stress that our results are based on an accounting exercise. As such, the results are indeed mechanical, but that is a feature of our method. 
In particular, we specify in the conclusion that 
" We perform an accounting exercise based on information contained in world input-output tables.
Our accounting approach helps identify which countries and sectors are under pressure to adjust their prices when subject to an exchange rate variation.
We make several assumptions to simplify our computations.
As a result, our estimates provide an upper bound of the HCE deflator elasticity."

-	Page numbers should be included.
-	The order of the online Appendices does not follow the order in which they are referred to in the text.
-	In section 2, gamma_k should be gamma_n in the expressions for p_n and x_n.

Thank you for bringing these aspects to our attention : they have been dealt with.
    


